# mobile-website-design
With a surge in smartphone users, businesses realize the need for a good mobile website design.An attractive mobile web design is a must for a business to stay relevant and compete with other companies. And google deciding to consider mobile-friendliness for influencing search engine rankings is like the cherry on the top.
Even though mobile websites overtook their desktop counterpart, there is a significant difference between people’s behavior on mobile and desktop websites. And few businesses are paying attention to this difference when creating a mobile website design. Stay with us if you want to offer your visitors a great mobile website design experience. You will learn about the top principles of design for a responsive website design.
What is Mobile Website Design?
A mobile web design is a web page created and optimized for portable devices, smartphones, and tablets. The website design should be responsive to ensure a good experience for visitors. A responsive website design can adapt to the screen size on which it’s viewed. In mobile websites, the elements of a website are stacked on top of each other in one long column. The size of the buttons is kept bigger, making it easy to tap them. And the text is larger concerning the page, making it easier to read.
Mobile web design is optimizing the web experience for mobile users. When creating a website, keep the following design features in mind:
Design for Mobile Devices
Earlier, the designers were optimizing websites for desktop users only. But, with the increase in smartphones, browsing habits are changing. This change prompts the designers to follow a mobile-first approach. This approach means that the designers should first optimize the site for the smallest possible screen. After optimizing for a smaller screen, they should start optimizing for larger screens like tablets or desktops.
Responsive Design for Mobile Devices
Responsive layout changes itself and adapts the size of the user’s device. It’s necessary to design a responsive layout showing maximum information on the smallest screen. However, you should not make the website look cluttered when trying to show the information to users.
Search Engine Friendly Design
Even if your website has the most intriguing content or features, users will be unable to locate it in search results. Google provides a tool called Mobile-Friendly Test that helps you to determine whether your website is mobile-friendly. Hence, you should also focus on developing a search engine-friendly design.
Businesses are quickly switching to mobile devices with the number of users visiting mobile websites instead of desktop websites. But, they need to create a mobile website optimized for mobile devices. A mobile-friendly web design can enhance the user experience. There is a difference in the behavior of users on desktops and mobiles. So, businesses should keep in mind the behavioral difference of users and create a good website for smartphones.
To help the businesses, we explained the basics of mobile website design, the design process, and the principles of website design. Although we defined the 7 fundamental principles to create an effective web design, it’s not necessary to follow all of them rigorously. Utilize those principles which work for your website. Ultimately, the design is not only for designers. It’s for users as well. Your mobile website design should be helpful to users and fulfill their goals.
Read more: https://www.hrtechservices.com/blog/effective-mobile-website-design/
